# Professional-Networking-Writing

	This programming lab, written in Java, was done as part of my CS232 class underneath my programming instructor. The main objective of this lab was to implement and specifically work on more object-oriented programming ideas, like classes, constructors, and objects. Java is a very object-oriented language, and this project was meant to emphasize and practice the aspects that make it object-oriented. This one of the first assignments that focused and emphasized these features of Java.
  
	The code for this project was written on my laptop in the program Apache NetBeans IDE 14. There are six different files in the project, each one containing one Java class. The file named “Main” is the main driver file that runs the program. This file contains all of the code that executes the methods within the other classes. The file named “Pet” is the parent class that all the other classes inherit from. These child classes are named “Dog”, “Cat”, “Bird”, and “Turtle”. The “Pet” class is the foundation of this project, as it provides information that all of the other classes use. There are two constructors in this class, one being a default constructor is placeholder values written in, and the other allowing for arguments. These arguments are attributes given by the user about their pet. These include: the type of animal, the name of the pet, the pet’s birth day, the name of the owner, the pet’s weight, the pet’s sex, and the pet’s color. Three other methods reside within this class, with one being overridden by the child classes. The first method is speak(), which is overridden by the class it is called on, meaning that depending on the animal class that is called on, it will output something different. For instance, if this method is called by the Bird object, it will output “chirp! chirp!”, but if it is called by the Dog object it will output “bark! bark!”. The second method is getTag(), which simply returns the string, “If lost, call,” with the name of the owner, given by the user, concatenated at the end. An example of this method’s output is, if the owner’s name was Frederick, “If lost, call Frederick.” The final method, toString(), simply outputs all of the attributes that are given by the user to their given pet. Each of the other classes inherit from the “Pet” class, meaning that they have access to the methods and constructors within the “Pet” class, which were the methods just previously listed. There are other methods in each of these classes, and these simply output a string message that correlates with the action the method represents. For example, if the method was named sleep(), then the output would be “ZZZzzzz.” The “Main” class is what controls the entire project. It calls the constructor for each of the child classes, creating an object to which it will assign values that are given by the user. With this object, it calls the methods from the “Pet” class as well as the methods associated with that specific class.
  
	The result of this program is a list of messages given in the console. Each of these messages are different and are determined by the method that is called and the object that the method is called on, as each method will return an output that is dependent on the object. This is the most significant part of this project, as the entire purpose was to experiment with the object-oriented nature of Java.
  
	The “Pet” class functions as a parent class that all of the child classes will inherit from. Inheritance is an object-oriented programming principle, and this project was meant to utilize that aspect. Each of the child classes have specific methods unique to that class. The “Main” class is the program driver. It instantiates the objects and then executes their methods. This program will result in the same output every time as no user input is required. Though, the code can be manually edited to change the results if desired. In order to change the output without changing the actual inner workings of the code, simply change the values assigned to each object by way of arguments in the constructor. This program did meet the objectives that it intended to achieve, which was to write a program that specifically utilizes the object-oriented features of Java. Working on this lab taught me quite a bit. I had already taken C++ and am already familiar with many aspects of object-oriented programming, but this is the first time I've worked on a project that specifically worked with classes, methods, and objects in this way. Several things can be improved, such as maybe adding more methods to call or even allowing the user to input their values while the program is running. Another interesting addition could be a GUI that allows the user to call specific methods depending on what button they press.
